# NUCLEO ICONS

These assets are icons that were converted into fonts for lighter and more convenient usage. Please follow the reminders below on how to manage and use Nucleo icons.

## FOLDERS

- **fonts** - This is generated by nucleo
- **scss** - This is generated by nucleo
- **svg** - This is where we store all the icons that we converted in nucleo. `NOTE: DO NOT USE THESE SVGs DIRECTLY TO OUR APP!` This folder is just for icon storage in case a new dev needs to import these icons to nucleo again.

---

## HOW TO USE

It's very easy to use nucleo icons. Since the main nucleo scss is already imported in `index.html` as a global, we can use nucleo icons anywhere in the app using this syntax

```
<i className="icon icon-youriconname" />
```

Replace `youriconname` to whatever name the icon has. Nucleo already has intellisense that shows you what icon names are available. But if you are not sure what icon name you need, just check the `./src/assets/nucleo-icons/svg` folder for reference.

---

## HOW TO ADD NEW ICONS

If you are new to the project, do the following first.

1. Download Nucleo app for free here https://nucleoapp.com/
2. Open the Nucleo app and click the `plus (+)` icon at the top left corner of the app and it will prompt a popup box to import your icons.
3. Click the dropdown and select `New set` and name it `ALP-main`.
4. Select your newly created set `ALP-main` on the dropdown.
5. Drag and drop all icons from `./src/assets/nucleo-icons/svg` folder to the import section.
6. Click `Import icons`.

Now that you have your nucleo app and icons setup. We can now proceed to adding new icons.

`NOTE: All icons should be SVG.`

1. Copy your svg icon to `./src/assets/nucleo-icons/svg` folder. Be sure to name it accordingly because that's what you will use when you use the icon in the app.
2. Click the `plus (+)` icon at the top left corner of the app.
3. Select `ALP-main` on the dropdown
4. Drag and drop your new icon to the import section.
5. Click `Import icons`.
6. Press `Ctrl + A` to select all icons.
7. Click `Export` button at the lower right corner of the app. A popup should propmt.
8. Be sure to select the `Icon Font` tab and don't change anything after.
9. Click `Export Icons` and save it anywhere outside our app folder.
10. After successfully exporting the icons, go to the folder where you export it.
11. Copy the `fonts` and `scss` folders and paste it to our app `./src/assets/nucleo-icons` to replace it with the latest.

Now you can use your new Icon in our app!.

<br />

[Go back to Main Page](../../../README.md)
