# Project Code Architecture
This architecture is our own approach to `DDD or Domain Driven Design`.

 Since every ALP Subsite is a very complicated app, simple react architectures wont be able to provide us a way to implement the complexity we need. This architecture also aims to follow the `SOLID programming principle` by grouping components and what they need into their own domain for isolation and better management. To better understand what this means, check the folder structure below and the explanations/descriptions below it.


```
├───build/
├───docs/
├───node_modules/
├───public/
└───src/
    │   App.tsx
    │   index.tsx
    │
    ├───assets/
    │   ├───img/
    │   ├───nucleo-icons/
    │   │   ├───fonts/
    │   │   ├───scss/
    │   │   └───svg/
    │   └───styles/
    │           global.scss
    │           mixins.scss
    │           override.boostrap.scss
    │
    ├───components/
    │   ├───ComponentSample/
    │   │       ComponentSample.scss
    │   │       ComponentSample.tsx
    │   │
    │   ├───GroupedComponentsSample/
    │   │   ├───Component1/
    │   │   ├───Component2/
    │   │   └───Component3/
    │   │
    │   └───RouteHelpers/
    │           HasAuthenticatedWrapper.tsx
    │           ProtectedRouteWrapper.tsx
    │           RouteWrapper.tsx
    │
    ├───features/
    │   ├───Layout/
    │   │   │   Layout.scss
    │   │   │   Layout.tsx
    │   │   │
    │   │   ├───Background/
    │   │   ├───hooks/
    │   │   ├───Navigations/
    │   │   ├───SideNavigation/
    │   │   ├───store/
    │   │   │
    │   │   └───utils/
    │   │
    │   └───SampleFeature1/
    │       │   SampleFeature1.scss
    │       │   SampleFeature1.tsx
    │       │
    │       ├───Component1/
    │       ├───Component2/
    │       ├───Component3/
    │       ├───hooks/
    │       ├───store/
    │       └───utils/
    |
    ├───config/
    ├───helpers/
    ├───hooks/
    ├───pages/
    │   ├───SamplePage/
    │   │   │   SamplePage.scss
    │   │   │   SamplePage.tsx
    │   │   │
    │   │   ├───hooks/
    │   │   ├───store/
    │   │   └───utils/
    │   │
    │   └───SampleSubRoute/
    │       │   SampleSubRoutes.tsx
    │       │
    │       ├───SampleInnerPage1/
    │       │   ├───hooks/
    │       │   ├───store/
    │       │   └───utils/
    │       │
    │       ├───SampleInnerPage2/
    │       └───store/
    │
    └───store/
        │   baseApi.ts
        │   store.ts
        │
        ├───services/
        │       userContextApi.ts
        │
        └───slices
                userSlice.ts
```

# Short Description of Architecture Above
- `build/` - *autogenerated by executing `npm run build`*
- `docs/` - *This is where the general documentations are being kept.*
- `node_modules/` - *autogenerated by excecuting `npm install`*
- `src/` - *This is where the developer (You) usually operates. This is the folder you should care about.*
  - `app.tsx` - *This is where we wrap the main route and layout component to the app.*
  - `index.tsx` - *This is the entry point of the app. You should wrap your app wrappers here such as HelmetProvider or Redux store provider.*

  ---
  - `assets/` - *This is where the app's core layer resides*
    - `img/` - *All image assets should be here.*
    - `nucleo-icons/` - *All of our icons were exported as font using nucleo icons. All nucleo assets should be stored here. Learn how to use Nucleo icons by reading this [Nucleo Instructions](src/assets/nucleo-icons/README.NucleoIcons.md)*
    - `styles/` - *All global styling should be located here* 
      - `global.scss` - *Global styles.*
      - `mixins.scss` - *All Sass/Scss variables and mixins*
      - `override.bootstrap.scss` - *All overrides to Bootstrap styling*
  ---
  - `components/` - *All global and independent components are stored here.*
    - `ComponentSample/` - *If component dont have any same category with other components, create a singe folder for it that stores the js and style.*
      - `ComponentSample.tsx` - *The JS/Typescript component.*
      - `ComponentSample.scss` - *Style of the component. NOTE! For all component specific styles like this, always wrap the styles into one unique parent class to avoid unnecessary conflict of styles with same class names on other component.*
    - `GroupedComponentsSample/` - *Some components have same catergory with others. i.e. `Alerts`, `Buttons`, `Forms` etc. You should group them into one folder*
      - `Component1/` - *Sample component under grouped folder. Contents are the same as ComponentSample*
      - `Component2/` - *Sample component under grouped folder. Contents are the same as ComponentSample*
      - `Component3/` - *Sample component under grouped folder. Contents are the same as ComponentSample*
    - `RouteHelpers/` - *This is a sample of a grouped components. These helper components help facilitate page components by wrapping them during routing. These components doesn't have any styles so I didnt put them into subfolders unlike `GroupedComponentsSample/`.*
      - `HasAuthenticatedWrapper.tsx` - *This is a wrapper for pages that should not be allowed to visit when user is already logged in..*
      - `ProtectedRouteWrapper.tsx` - *This is a wrapper for pages that should not be allowed to visit if user is NOT logged in.*
      - `RouteWrapper.tsx` - *This is an ordinary page wrapper. All it does is to suspend the wrapped pages when not requested (basically helps you implement lazy loading). All 3 wrappers implement Suspend btw.*
  ---
  - `features/` - *All components that communicates with each other, uses complex logic, uses redux store slice, etc that forms a certain feature should be here.*
    - `Layout/` - *This is the general layout of the app.*
      - `Layout.tsx` - *The importable component that assembles every layout component.*
      - `Background/` - *The app's custom background with floating hexagons.*
      - `hooks/` - *This feature's custom hooks if theres any.*
      - `store/` - *This is the redux store of this feature. Slices and Apis for RTK Query can be stored here if theres any*
      - `utils/` - *Utility files like constants, utility functions, etc can be stored here.*
  ---
  - `config/` - *All app config must be done here. All environment variables should be consumed here.*
  - `helpers/` - *This contains app's utilities/helpers like constants, utility functions, etc*
  - `hooks/` - *This contains all custom hooks that can be used anywhere in app*
  ---
  - `pages/` - *This contains app's pages*
    - `SamplePage/` - *Ordinary page with no subpages and subroutes.*
      - `SamplePage.tsx` - *The JS/Typescript page component.*
      - `SamplePage.scss` - *Style of the component. NOTE! For all component specific styles like this, always wrap the styles into one unique parent class to avoid unnecessary conflict of styles with same class names on other component.*
    - `SampleSubRoute/` - *Pages that belongs to a subroute should be grouped into a folder. These usually are pages under a certain menu with multiple subpages*
      - `SampleSubRoutes.tsx` - *Subroutes should be declated here at the root folder of subsroute. Only connect subpages inside this folder/domain.*
      - `SampleInnerPage1/` - *Sample page under subroute folder. Contents are the same as ComponentSample*
        - `components/` - *Page exclusive components should be here if theres any*
        - `hooks/` - *This is page's custom hooks if theres any*
        - `utils/` - *Utility files like constants, utility functions, etc can be stored here if theres any*
      - `SampleInnerPage2/` - *Sample page under subroute folder. Contents are the same as SampleInnerPage1*
      - `store/` - *This is the redux store of these pages. Slices and Apis for RTK Query can be stored here. Note: This can also be inside the pages folder if no shared apis and slices.*

<br />

[Go back to Main Page](../README.md)